update steps; make cloud-friendly version (#167)
grafana/tutorials: content/tutorials/grafana-fundamentals-cloud.md

   PromQL lets you group the time series by their labels, using the `sum` function.

1. Add the `sum` function to your query to group time series by route:

   ```
   sum(rate(tns_request_duration_seconds_count[5m])) by(route)
   ```

1. Go back to the [sample application](https://grafana.news) and generate some traffic by adding new links, voting, or just refresh the browser.

1. In the upper right corner, click the _time picker_, and select **Last 5 minutes**. By zooming in on the last few minutes, it's easier to see when you receive new data.

Depending on your use case, you might want to group on other labels. Try grouping by other labels, such as `status_code`, by changing the `by(route)` part of the query.

{{< /tutorials/step >}}
{{< tutorials/step title="Add a logging data source" >}}

Grafana supports log data sources, like [Loki](https://grafana.com/oss/loki/). Just like for metrics, you first need to add your data source to Grafana.

1. In the side bar, hover your cursor over the  **Configuration** (gear) icon, and then click **Data Sources**.
1. Click **Add data source**.

> 1. In the list of data sources, click **Loki**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the list of data sources, click **Loki**.
```

1. In the URL box, enter `https://loki.grafana.news`.
1. Click **Save & Test** to save your changes.

Loki is now available as a data source in Grafana.

{{< /tutorials/step >}}
{{< tutorials/step title="Explore your logs" >}}

> Grafana Explore not only lets you make ad-hoc queries for metrics, but lets you explore your logs as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana Explore not only lets you make ad-hoc queries for metrics but lets you explore your logs as well.
```

> 1. In the side bar, click the **Explore** (compass) icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the eft navigation pane or side bar, click the **Explore** (compass) icon.
```

> 1. In the data source list at the top, select the **Loki** data source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the data source list at the top, select the **Loki** data source.
```

1. In the **Query editor**, enter:

   ```
   {filename="/var/log/tns-app.log"}
   ```

> 1. Grafana displays all logs within the log file of the sample application. The height of each bar encodes the number of logs that were generated at that time.

Reviewer: Not a step.

1. Click and drag across the bars in the graph to filter logs based on time.

> Not only does Loki let you filter logs based on labels, but on specific occurrences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Loki lets you filter logs based on labels and also on specific occurrences.
```

Let's generate an error, and analyze it with Explore.

1. In the [sample application](https://grafana.news), post a new link without a URL to generate an error in your browser that says `empty url`.
1. Go back to Grafana and enter the following query to filter log lines based on a substring:

   ```
   {filename="/var/log/tns-app.log"} |= "error"
   ```

1. Click on the log line that says `level=error msg="empty url"` to see more information about the error.

> Logs are helpful for understanding what went wrong. Later in this tutorial, you'll see how you can correlate logs with metrics from Prometheus to better understand the context of the error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logs help you identify and understand what went wrong. Later in this tutorial, you'll see how you can correlate logs with metrics from Prometheus to better understand the context of the error.
```

Dashboards consist of _panels_, each representing a part of the story you want your dashboard to tell.

Every panel consists of a _query_ and a _visualization_. The query defines _what_ data you want to display, whereas the visualization defines _how_ the data is displayed.

1. In the side bar, hover your cursor over the **Create** (plus sign) icon and then click **Dashboard**.
1. Click **Add new panel**.
1. In the **Query editor** below the graph, enter the query from earlier and then press Shift + Enter:

   ```
   sum(rate(tns_request_duration_seconds_count[5m])) by(route)
   ```

1. In the **Legend** field, enter **{{route}}** to rename the time series in the legend. The graph legend updates when you click outside the field.
1. In the Panel editor on the right, under **Settings**, change the panel title to "Traffic".
1. Click **Apply** in the top-right corner to save the panel and go back to the dashboard view.
1. Click the **Save dashboard** (disk) icon at the top of the dashboard to save your dashboard.
1. Enter a name in the **New name** field and then click **Save**.

{{< /tutorials/step >}}
{{< tutorials/step title="Annotate events" >}}

> When things go bad, it often helps if you understand the context in which the failure occurred. Time of last deploy, system changes, or database migration can offer insight into what might have caused an outage. Annotations allow you to represent such events directly on your graphs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When things go bad, it often helps if you understand the context in which the failure occurred. Time of last deployment, system changes, or database migration can offer insight into what might have caused an outage. Annotations allow you to represent such events directly on your graphs.
```

> In the next part of the tutorial, we will simulate some common use cases that someone would add annotations for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next part of the tutorial, we will simulate some common use cases where you can add annotations.
```
